
# Getting started

## 1. A simple network

Two computers interconnected form a network.

To communicate they need a connection:

- Wi-Fi
- Bluetooth
- Ethernet cable

You can connect as many computers as you want.

**Networks that use physical cables have the same principles as wireless networks.**

## 2. The network switch

Purpose: Cable and data management.

1) Without a network switch we would have to connect all of the computers inside the network to all of the other computers => a lot of cables.

2) With a network switch we just need to connect the computer to the switch and it connects with the rest of the computers connected to the switch.

**It manages the data transmitted between computers.**

Since a switch is also a computer we can connect two switches and so on but this also creates a problem, because a single switch failure can disconnect a large portion of devices.

Due to the prior problem we must keep the local networks as small as possible.

## 3. Router

The local networks are interconnected via routers.
A router is like a computer that knows how to forward messages between networks.

## 4. Modem

To connect all of the routers we might use an physical medium(cables).We could use for example the telephone infrastructure and we would use a modem to connect our network to the telephone infrastructure.

This modem turns the information from our network into information manageable by the telephone infrastructure and vice versa.

*Note that the commercial router in your home is likely a combination of a switch, a router, and a modem, all in one device.*

## 5. ISP

Next step: sending the message from our network to another.
We just connect our network to an ISP = Internet Service Provider.(Orange, RDS, RCS, etc...).

ISP = a company that manages some special routers all linked together and can also access other ISP's routers.

The **Internet** consists of this whole infrastructure of networks that communicate with each other.

## 6. Finding computers

For identification each computer has a unique address called an IP address.

IP = Internet Protocol.

IPv4: 142.199.010.78.
IPv6: fe80::e1fd:5384:a4ea:596e.

*The easiest way to reach a server on the Internet is to use a **Domain name**. A domain name is an alias that easier to remember for humans such as google.com instead of it's IP address.*

## 7. Internet vs the Web

**The Web is a service built on top of the Internet infrastructure.**

Among the computers interconnected over the internet some are called WEB SERVERS. and can send messages intelligible to the web.

There are other services built on top of the internet infrastructure such as email.

## 8. Intranets and Extranets

1) Intranets = private networks that are restricted to members of a particular organization.

```example

They are commonly used to provide a portal for members to securely access shared resources, collaborate and communicate.

```

1) Extranets = Similar to intranets but they open all or part of a private network to allow sharing/collaboration with other organizations.

```example

They are typically used to safely and securely share information with clients and stakeholders who work closely with a business.

```

*Both intranets and extranets run on the same kind of infrastructure as the Internet, and use the same protocols.*

**Intranet < Extranet < Internet.**
